---
lang: en
date: '2019-05-15 02:00 -0400'
published: true
title: 'Friends: June 7-August 15, 2019'
categories:
  - exhibitions
gallery:
  - islam_inception2.JPG
  - ak.JPG
  - fadaa_amaal.jpg
  - erik-threnody-husam3.jpg
  - erik-threnody-husam2.jpg
  - erik-threnody-husam.jpg
  - maureen-layla-new3.jpg
  - maureen-layla-new9.jpg
image: friends_simple_loc.png
tags:
  - 'artist:Amaal AlNajjar'
  - 'artist:Abdul Karim Awad'
  - 'artist:Ali Salman'
  - 'artist:Asmaa Diab'
  - 'artist:Erik Ruin'
  - 'artist:Fadaa Ali'
  - 'artist:Fadia Lilmakhzoub'
  - 'artist:Fouad Sakhnini'
  - 'artist:Islam Aly'
  - 'artist:Layla Al Hussein'
  - 'artist:Marwa'
  - 'artist:Maureen Cummins'
  - 'artist:Mohamed'
  - 'artist:Osama Herkal'
  - 'artist:Samah AlKasab'
---
A recurring question surfaced in both public and private conversations over the past two years of the Friends, Peace, and Sanctuary project. “Why, when we (Syrians and Iraqis) know so much about American culture, do Americans know so little about ours?” Forming connections as friends takes time. It requires trust and reciprocity. To expose pieces of individual and collective selves—sharing culture, beliefs, feelings, and personal stories—both parties must be fully present with one another.  Home is a reflection of self, and to be invited to share a meal or drink tea is to welcome another into one’s own personal museum of history, beliefs, and current status in the modern world. When shared with friends, a home can become a place of refuge and a space to honor difference.

Throughout the _Friends, Peace, and Sanctuary_ project, participants opened their homes, hearts, and minds and shared their histories, cultures, and personal stories. Together, over tea, coffee, and home-cooked food, participants shared the excitement of commonalities while also cultivating love for nuance and appreciating difference. If common interests, values, history, are the elements that draw people together as friends, we want to know: Is it possible for art to help us address this gap? Can we use art to transform conflict into connection? Can we turn a gallery into a home?
 
In partnership with [12Gates Arts](http://www.twelvegatesarts.org/), _Friends, Peace, and Sanctuary_ invites you into their home away from home – the gallery. Join us in experiencing everything from sculptures and dictionaries to archaeology books and paintings that celebrate and enumerate cultural and historical moments, conversations, personal stories, and most of all, friendships. These artworks reflect the process of artmaking that rectifies misinformation about Syrian and Iraqi cultures and the global resettlement process by expanding the space in our hearts for more empathy, belonging, and friendship. Artists on display include FPS collaborators and book artists: Layla Al-Huseini, Fadaa Ali, Islam Ali, Samah Al-Kasab, Asmaa Diab, Amaal Alnajar, Abdul Karim Awad, Maureen Cummins, Osama Herkal, Mohamed, Marwa, Fadia, Erik Ruin, Fouad Sakhnini, and Ali Salman.

**Programs:**

-June 7, 2019 at 6-8:30pm - _First Friday Opening Reception with live performance by Erik Ruin and Julius Masry_

-June 8, 2019 from 10am-1pm - _Accordion book workshop and story share with Islam Aly_

**About 12Gates Arts:**

[12Gates Arts (12G)](http://www.twelvegatesarts.org/) showcases international multidisciplinary arts bound by the sensibilities of a diasporic identity – with a special focus on South Asian diasporic identities – and to create and promote projects in the community that cross geographic and cultural boundaries.
