---
lang: en
date: '2019-05-15 01:00 -0400'
published: true
title: 'Peace: June 7-August 2, 2019'
categories:
  - exhibitions
gallery:
  - maureen_alienation4.jpg
  - erik_collab_journeys.jpg
  - MCYestoHopeCover.JPG
  - erik_collab_journeys12.jpg
  - islam_wksp11.jpg
  - akpeace.jpg
  - life_book.JPG
  - peace_exhibit.JPG
  - peace_exhibit2.JPG
image: peace_simple_loc.png
tags:
  - 'artist:Amaal AlNajjar'
  - 'artist:Abir AlArnab'
  - 'artist:Abdul Karim Awad'
  - 'artist:Ali Salman'
  - 'artist:Asmaa Diab'
  - 'artist:Courtney Bowles'
  - 'artist:Erik Ruin'
  - 'artist:Fadaa Ali'
  - 'artist:Fadia Lilmakhzoub'
  - 'artist:Fouad Sakhnini'
  - 'artist:Islam Aly'
  - 'artist:Layla Al Hussein'
  - 'artist:Mark Strandquist'
  - 'artist:Marwa'
  - 'artist:Maureen Cummins'
  - 'artist:Mohamed'
  - 'artist:Osama Herkal'
  - 'artist:Raghad'
  - 'artist:Roula Al Jabi'
  - 'artist:Samah AlKasab'
---
Building mutual respect and friendships across cultures can forge a path to peace: a word that evokes rest, relaxation, quiet, safety and freedom from conflict. It also invokes action, activism, streets full of people demanding justice, or lively conversations about ways to move forward. Expressed through conversations and reflective artmaking, the feeling of peace is not simply living free of war in Syria or Iraq; it is a sensation that comes with being close to one’s support network of friends, family, and neighbors. 

In partnership with the [Free Library of Philadelphia](https://www.freelibrary.org/), _Friends, Peace, and Sanctuary_ invites you to experience this groundbreaking exhibition, available for quiet contemplation surrounding the true meaning of peace and tranquility. Featuring artists’ books by individual project collaborators and commissioned book artists, this curated selection documents collective memories of the 2-year experience.

Take an adventure with the “Sticky Family” comic, exploring the powers we have when we figure out how we fit together and act collectively towards peace. Go through screen-printed [_“Journeys”_](http://fps.swarthmore.edu/workshops/journeys-artist-workshops-with-erik-ruin/) of love, life, and war. Say _[“Yes to Hope”_](http://fps.swarthmore.edu/workshops/workshops-with-maureen-cummins/) by learning about roots, family trees, names, recipes, and poetry that offers documentation for community building and making together. Remember that “Good Will Happen” when we experience life through color, history, memory, and renewal. From archival materials from the Swarthmore College Libraries to a collaborative comic book inspired by collaborator stories of resettlement, to handmade works from both Friends, Peace, and Sanctuary project collaborators as well as commissioned book artists, you will feel the lengths we will go for peace, the powers necessary for peace, and the processes of working together. 

Artistic collaborators include: Islam Aly, Maureen Cummins, Erik Ruin, Courtney Bowles, Mark Strandquist, Abir Alarnab, Amaal Al-Najjar, Abdul Karim Awad, Ali Salman, Asmaa Diab, Courtney Bowles, Fadaa Ali, Fadia, Falak, Fouad Sakhnini, Hasan Almohtadi, Layla Al Hussein, Marwa, Mohamed, Mostafa, Osama Herkal, Raghad Samir, Shouq Ramadan, Roula Al Jabi, Maryan Captan, Eric Battle, Joshua Graupera, Yaroub Al-Obaidi, and Samah.  

_**Peace**_ will be displayed on the 2nd floor of the Library.


**Programs:**

July 13, 2019 - Open House + Reception at the new Heim Center for Cultural and Civic Engagement at Parkway Central Library.


**About The Free Library of Philadelphia:**

The [Free Library of Philadelphia](https://www.freelibrary.org/) is one of the most important and widely used educational and cultural institutions in Greater Philadelphia. Our mission is to advance literacy, guide learning, and inspire curiosity. Each year, we welcome 6 million visitors to our 54 library locations and millions more to freelibrary.org.
