---
title: Threnody for the Dispossessed by Erik Ruin
lang: en
categories:
  - works
tags:
  - 'artist:Amaal AlNajjar'
  - 'artist:Abdul Karim Awad'
  - 'artist:Erik Ruin'
  - 'artist:Layla Al Hussein'
gallery:
  - threnody-1.jpg
  - threnody-2.jpg
  - threnody-3.jpg
  - erik-threnody-husam3.jpg
  - erik-threnody-husam2.jpg
  - erik-threnody-husam.jpg
soundcloud_id: 595380243
permalink: /threnody/
published: true
date: '2019-12-04 16:46 -0500'
image: Threnody_Ruin-Erik_IMG_9991.jpg
---

***A Threnody for the Dispossessed*** is a sixty-foot long screen-printed scroll/accordion-book that impressionistically interweaves the experiences of people displaced by war in the Middle East, Europe and Latin America. Images and experiences flow freely into another, the trails of tear gas morphing into the mists of limbo. A "wailing ode", a chorus of voices drawn from historical accounts and contemporary interviews accompanies the book, part of an original score  by multi-instrumentalist Julius Masri.

<iframe width="100%" max-width="800px" height="100px" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://w.soundcloud.com/player/?url=https%3A//api.soundcloud.com/tracks/{{ page.soundcloud_id }}&amp;auto_play=false&amp;hide_related=false&amp;show_comments=true&amp;show_user=false&amp;scrolling=true&amp;show_artwork=true&amp;show_reposts=false&amp;visual=false"></iframe>

## The Chorus

*as themselves-*

[Abdul Karim Awad](/artist-abdul-karim-awad), translated by Yaroub Al Obaidi, interviewed by Erik Ruin

[Layla Al Hussein](/artist-layla-al-hussein), translated by Zubaida Qaissi, interviewed by ER

[Amaal Alnajjar](/artist-amaal-alnajjar), translated by Sara Shnati, interviewed by ER

*as others-*

**Paloma Irizarry** voices Joel Morelos, Leticia Ramos, and various anonymous accounts gathered by Tutela Legal, the Guatemalan Human Rights Commission, and the Arizona Sanctuary Defense Fund.

**Morgan Fitzpatrick Andrews** voices Felix and Lotte Weiniger, Hans Bergas, and Alexander Trocme.

**Vanessa Ogbuehi** voices Elizabeth Yarnall and a Staff Report on Valentina Radastovec from Sky Island.

All read from “Reply to the Minister Of Justice-Ottawa, from members of the Spiritual Community of Christ of British Columbia, August 31st, 1944”

---

[**Erik Ruin**](/artist-erik-ruin) is a Michigan-raised, Philadelphia-based printmaker, shadow puppeteer, paper-cut artist, etc., who has been lauded by *The New York Times* for his "spell-binding cut-paper animations." His work oscillates between the poles of apocalyptic anxieties and utopian yearnings, with an emphasis on empathy, transcendence and obsessive detail. He frequently works collaboratively with musicians, theater performers, other artists and activist campaigns. He is a founding member of the international Justseeds Artists' Cooperative, and co-author of the book *Paths Toward Utopia: Graphic Explorations of Everyday Anarchism* (with Cindy Milstein, PM Press, 2012).

[**Julius Masri**](http://www.juliusmasri.com/) is a Philadelphia based multi instrumentalist, and a performer/composer for the city's dance community at large. His music focuses on improvisatory methods and syncretic/linguistic exchanges within various musical languages including Jazz, Metal, Afro-Cuban, Experimental Noise, and Arabic music. Born in Tripoli, Lebanon, he moved to the States in 1990 and picked up drumming a year later. He studied with Philadelphia instructors Carl Mottola, Elaine Hoffman-Watts, and as an undergraduate at Bard College, with AACM's Thurman Barker, Richard Teitelbaum, and Joan Tower. Julius plays drums, circuit modified Casio keyboards, Oud, Kamancheh (aka Rabab, Spike Fiddle), and various other instruments. He currently performs in groups such as grind/crust metal band Night Raids, free jazz groups Sirius Juju and Dromedaries, experimental rock band Van Sutra, trombone and synth duo Superlith, and more. He has performed with such crucial musicians as Henry Grimes, Jamaaladeen Tacuma, Thurman Barker, members of the Sun Ra Arkestra.
