---
lang: en
date: '2019-06-10 15:04 -0500'
published: true
title: World Refugee Day 2018 & 2019
categories:
  - public events
tags:
  - 'artist:Abdul Karim Awad'
  - 'artist:Ali Salman'
  - 'artist:Asmaa Diab'
  - 'artist:Fadaa Ali'
  - 'artist:Osama Herkal'
image: wrd_18_c_IMG_5743.jpg
gallery:
  - wrd_18_IMG_5992.jpg
  - wrd_18_IMG_5939.jpg
  - wrd_18_IMG_5718.jpg
  - wrd_18_IMG_5716.jpg
  - wrd_IMG_5789_comp copy.jpg
  - wrd_IMG_5789_comp.jpg
  - wrd_IMG_3374.jpg
  - wrd_IMG_3373.jpg
---
June 20 is international world refugee day and global day of action. Organizations working in resettlement such as HIAS and Nationalities Services Center, have organized events in Philadelphia to honor the resilience of refugees and raise awareness of ways to help them. 

In 2018, World Refugee Day was held in Center City in the courtyard of Philadelphia City Hall. The day was fille with music, talks, and a variety of activities. _Friends, Peace, and Sanctuary_ led a simple book-making activity and names in Arabic calligraphy.

In 2019, World Refugee Day coalition decided to organize neighborhood events in 3 locations in Philalphia that has absorbed the resettlement of refugees from different backgrounds. It was a way to celebrate people where they live with performances, food, soccer tournament and more. Participating in the northeast event at Tarkan Recreation Center, _Friends, Peace, and Sanctuary_ gave out project catalogs and led a simple book-making activity. Additionally, project collaborators shared their work: Fadaa Ali  shared her jewlery and ceramics; Abdul Karim Awad did an interactive art activity; and Ali Salman shared his books and engraved glass and ceramics. Asmaa Diab and Osama Herkal were asked to cater the food.  It was an opportunity for people to come together in the community and celebrate together. 
